resources, media: add Figma Guide (#1748)
pingcap/docs: resources/figma-quick-start-guide.md

---
title: Figma Quick Start Guide
summary: This guide introduces how to use Figma to design a figure.
---

# Figma Quick Start Guide

[Figma](https://www.figma.com/) is a collaborative interface design tool that runs in a browser. This guide introduces how to use Figma to design a figure.

## The Figma interface

For details, see the [Figma tutorial](https://help.figma.com/article/12-getting-familiar-with-figma).

## Get started with Figma

Perform the following steps to get started with Figma.

### Step 1: Create an account

Go to [https://www.figma.com/](https://www.figma.com/) and click **Sign up** to create an account.

> **Note:**
>
> If you have a Google account, you can click **Sign up with Google** to log in with the existing Google account.

![Sign up](/media/sign-up.png)

### Step 2: Open the tidb-sketch-book file

> Currently, anyone with the link [https://www.figma.com/file/MOBwqkBtuA03agMjeGEGUT/tidb-sketch-book](https://www.figma.com/file/MOBwqkBtuA03agMjeGEGUT/tidb-sketch-book) can view [tidb-sketch-book](https://www.figma.com/file/MOBwqkBtuA03agMjeGEGUT/tidb-sketch-book).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click [tidb-sketch-book](https://www.figma.com/file/MOBwqkBtuA03agMjeGEGUT/tidb-sketch-book) to view the template.
```

> **Note:**
>
> - **tidb-sketch-book** is a Figma file that collects common shapes for figure designs. When creating a figure, you are recommended to use the objects and colors in this file to maintain a consistent style for figures.

> > - If you can't open this file, contact [Jingyi Chen](mailto:chenjingyi@pingcap.com) for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - If you cannot open this file, contact [Jingyi Chen](mailto:chenjingyi@pingcap.com) for help.
```

    ![Duplicate](/media/duplicate.png)

    ![tidb-sketch-book (Copy)](/media/tidb-sketch-book-copy.png)

3. Right-click on the **tidb-sketch-book (Copy)** file and select **Rename** to alter its name. In this example, the file is renamed as figma-test.

    ![Rename](/media/rename.png)

    ![figma-test](/media/figma-test.png)

4. Double-click the file you renamed just now. Choose the **Frame** tool (F) and drag out an area of the screen to make a new Frame. In this example, Frame 19 is created.

    To delete a frame, choose the frame and then press **Shift**+**Command**+**G**.

    ![Frame](/media/frame.png)

    ![New Frame](/media/new-frame.png)

Within this Frame, you can begin your designs.

### Step 4: Design your figure

You are recommended to copy and paste the existing objects within other Frames into the new Frame.

> **Note:**
>
> * To ensure a consistent style for figures, design a figure **based on shapes and the color scheme in the tidb-sketch-book file**.
> * Set text fonts to **Ubuntu**.

#### Pick a color

1. Select an object and click the **Fill** value in the properties panel to open the color picker.

    ![Fill](/media/fill.png)

> 2. Click the eyedropper tool icon (keyboard shortcuts: **Ctrl**+**C** or **I**) next to the slider to open the eyedropper tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the eyedropper tool icon (keyboard shortcuts: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> or <kbd>I</kbd>) next to the slider to open the eyedropper tool.
```

Reviewer: Please use the same format for all other occurrences of keys in this PR.

2. Select the target Frame and press **Command**+**V** to paste the object.

#### Copy and paste multiple objects

1. Select the layers you want to edit in the layers panel and press **Command**+**C** to copy these objects.

    ![Copy objects](/media/copy-objects.png)

2. Select the target Frame and press **Command**+**V** to paste the objects into the current Frame.

#### Round corners

Select the object you want to edit and adjust the **Corner Radius** value in the properties panel.

![Corner Radius](/media/corner-radius.png)

#### Other operations

See the [Figma user guide](https://help.figma.com/category/9-getting-started).

### Step 5: Export a figure

1. Select the Frame you want to export and click **+** next to the **Export** settings.

    > **Note:**
    >
    > You can export a Frame (recommended), a layer, a group, or multiple layers.

    ![Export](/media/export.png)

2. Set the figure format. You can export to **PNG (recommended)**, JPG, SVG, or PDF.

    ![Figure format](/media/figure-format.png)

3. Click the **Export Frame X** button below **PNG** to export your figure.

    ![Export Frame X](/media/export-frame-x.png)

> 4. Use a **descriptive** name for the figure. You can use lowercase characters, numbers, and hyphens (-) in the name. **Avoid using uppercase characters, spaces, and underscores**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Use a **descriptive** name for the figure. You can use lowercase characters, numbers, and hyphens `-` in the name. **Avoid using uppercase characters, spaces, and underscores**.
```
